[Music]
welcome to the seven-minute marketing
podcast with your host Pam did nerve as
a leading marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
help you achieve better alignment
between sales and marketing if you enjoy
this podcast please share it with your
colleagues and we review on iTunes now
let's get started a client I haven't
talked to for two years
texted me on Monday she asks if we can
get together for a cup of coffee I am so
glad to hear from Harriet she was the
chief of staff and the operations
manager for business unit in a global
enterprise I helped her create keynote
presentations for a general manager Jeff
I even helped her build the internal
communication process once I created
several keynote presentations and
establish the internal communications
she just ran with it through the
grapevine I know that she is doing very
well and Jeff promoted her to be the
director of marketing several months ago
I sent a short note of congratulations
she was super excited about the
opportunity even though Harriet doesn't
have marketing experience however Jeff
was welding to coach Harriet to help her
ramp up on the sales and marketing side
of things
Plus Harriet is a fast learner with the
proper coaching she'll be fine
unfortunately Jeff left the company
right after he promoted Harriet so a new
general manager Tom was hired to replace
Jeff Tom has solid operations finance
and a product experience but really
doesn't know much about marketing Tom
realize our hairiest to articulate what
his marketing team does for the group
however Harriet with our strong
marketing background or experience it
has a hard time articulating her team's
contribution so she asked me if I can
help her on a couple things
articulate her teens value adding
contribution to Tom and help her
create a twenty20 marketing plan when we
met she was a bit stressed she told me
that tom is a nice guy but she also has
been asking many many questions that she
doesn't know how to answer properly or
well giving that she's new to the role
Plus the marketing team didn't have a
marketing director for many months and a
team was directly under Jeff for a long
while Jeff knew the ins and outs of
marketing but unfortunately there was no
transition between Jeff and Harriet due
to Jeff's sudden departure I told
Harriet let's think about it all right
now think about it what Tom really wants
to know he's a product and a finance guy
plus he cares about his revenue goes and
the customers he wants to make sure that
his customers are happy and he hits the
revenue targets therefore we need to
answer three important questions how
does the marketing team help build a
customer base
what does marketing do to support a
sales team
how does Harry esteem help current
customers it's really not about telling
Tom what marketing does on daily basis
we need to talk about marketing's impact
on new prospect acquisitions its ability
to enable the sales team to close deals
and the support of a top accounts
answering these questions will help Tom
understand the marketing's impact on
things that he cares the most revenue
and the customers so based on these
three questions I helped her build a
presentation deck to educate Tom on
marketing's contributions giving tom is
new to the role and has no marketing
experience I told her to explain the
following first that started from the
top which is in a very holistic manner
how does the company as a hold market to
Tom's customers area needs to explain
how corporate marketing words with the
product marketing and a country
marketing etc right the next how does
Harry is marketing team fit into the
overall marketing machine right what is
it
hereas teams do in relationship to the
other marketing teams then we move on to
explain why does hairiest team do to
support direct sales and what does the
team do to find prospects how does the
team go about educating existing
customers about new products or new
features of existing products and after
all that Harriette can move on to talk
about the second half of the 2019 plan
focuses and the challenges then answer
the presentation with the initiative in
progress and the next steps
I kept emphasizing that she needs to
talk about marketing from Tom's
perspective Tom cares about sales and
customers so why can she do to make sure
that sales and the customers are taken
care of for sales
it's about sales training and the past
new content for customers it's about
solving customers issues and possibly
working closely with customer support in
addition she needs to think about how to
work with subject matter experts to
create content that sales and customers
need we spend one hour talking after the
meeting I offered to put together a deck
template so that she can feel in the
blanks to clearly articulate her team's
value add and contributions
I share my proposed flow with her the
next day when we met again we move
around the slides and she was able to
take the skeleton I built and add
relevant information to tell her own
story she very much wants to make the
transition from an Operations Manager to
a marketer and I told her that we can
spend several sessions together I am
more than happy to help her make that
transition after all I made that
transition successfully twelve years ago
and I love to share what I learned if
you have challenges articulating your
team's value add and contribution reach
out let's talk about it again love to
hear from you and that's keep learning
from each other okay thanks a lot have a
great day
if you enjoyed this podcast we share it
with your colleagues and leave a review
on iTunes
[Music]